# What output does the pipeline produce?
Placeholders are in in parentheses.

## Processed data sets
At the beginning of each pipeline run, both 'Input' and 'Output' directories are expunged. Subsequently, all data sets stored in the 'Source' directory are copied to 'Input' from where they are imported for processing. Following each processing step, the data sets that were modified in the respective step are exported to the 'Input' directory and datasets_table in R (a working copy of {date}\_datasets_summary_V{version}.csv) is updated.

## Rarefaction
For each data set that undergoes rarefaction, three files are exported to the project's 'Output' directory:
- **{datasetID}\_rarefaction_curves_subsample\_{subsample_size}.png:** Rarefaction curves for each plot. Rarefied diversity is visualized by horizontal lines. The vertical line marks the subsample size selected, which is also featured in the file's name.
- **{datasetID}\_rarefaction_curve_slopes_subsample\_{subsample_size}.csv:** As the the x-axis in rarefaction plots can be quasi-logarithmic (i.e. its increment might be way larger than the y-axi's increment), interpreting these graphs might be challenging. To facilitate their interpretation, this file lists the slope of each rarefaction curve at the subsampling size selected.
- **{datasetID}_rarefaction_curve_slopes_subsample\_{subsample_size}.png:** A graphical representation of the information stored in {datasetID}\_rarefaction_curve_slopes_subsample\_{subsample_size}.csv.

## Final quality control
- **FQC_env_var_composite_complete.csv:** The quality-controlled composite, after excluding columns that have non-numeric content, are mono-value or feature NA/NaN/Inf. No variables selection was performed on this output. Use this file if you would like to perform variables selection yourself or subset for the variables you are most interested in by dataset ID.

## Variables selection
- **VS_pearson_corrMat.csv:** A matrix with pairwise Pearson's r for all variables in FQC_env_var_composite_complete.csv.
- **VS_pearson_pVals.csv:** A matrix holding the p-value for each pairwise comparison specified. 
- **VS_pearson_numbObs.csv:** A matrix holding the number of observations that are the basis for calculating VS_pearson_corrMat.csv and VS_pearson_pVals.csv.
- **VS_VIF\{VIF_threshold}\_VS_analysed_vars:** All variables used in variables selection for the VIF threshold specified.
- **VS_VIF\{VIF_threshold}\_VS_retained_vars_scores.csv:** Variables retained and their VIF scores after excluding cross-correlated variables by a stepwise variance inflation factor analysis with the VIF threshold specified. 
- **VS_VIF\{VIF_threshold}\_VS_composite.csv:** FQC_env_var_composite_complete.csv after excluding all variables deemed cross-correlated (i.e. only the variables listed in VS_VIF\{VIF_threshold}\_VS_retained_vars_scores.csv are featured here).
- **VS_VIF\{VIF_threshold}\_VS_corr_matrix.csv:** Pairwise Pearson's r for all variables retained at the VIF threshold specified. This might be quite useful in downstream model interpretation.
- **VS_VIF\{VIF_threshold}\_VS_excluded_vars.csv:** Variables that have been excluded at the VIF threshold specified.

## Metadata compilation
- **metadata_compiled_variables.csv:** The metadata to the variables compiled in FQC_env_var_composite_complete.csv. Information is obtained from the data sets' datastructure files.

## General
- **console_output.txt:** All prompts generated by the pipeline. This is most useful if your console is set up in a way that does not retain all lines produced by this pipeline. Scan this file for warnings/errors.
